1957* LOVE is the dream that Cameron Williams pursues from  the first stirring moment he becomes aware of Lise, the girl in the seat below his in freshman history class. His personal failure, as earnestly set down by the author, is that the young
1957* EVER since the publication of "The Friendly Persuasion' in 1945 thousands of discriminating readers have known that  Jessamyn West is an exceptionally gifted, original and engaging writer. Since then her striking novel, "The Witch Diggers," and...
1957* WILLIAM SANSOM has contrived a curious blend  of qualities in "The Loving Eye." Count them--a touch of pathos, a near-excess of whimsy, a dash of the grisly, a cuttingedge of satire and a cup of romance. There is an abundance of humor in Britain,...
1957* THE back eddies of history supply the material of Stew  art Holbrook's new book. The same area is earnestly fished by candidates for the Doctor of Philosophy degree, but Mr. Holbrook has a gift unfortunately denied the grubby-minded: he makes things...
1957* DURING the last twenty-five years the number of books written about the  American past has passed even the ability of statistically minded librarians to estimate. Of these many have been works...
1957* TOLEDO, Ohio, June 26--"A Midsummer Night's Dream" and the dream of supporters here, became realities tonight.
1957* THE familiar theme of this novel--about a young girl's  brutal awakening from the dreams of adolescence--is rendered quite fresh and new...
1957* 
1957* THE poems and letters in this book were written by a child  of 8, Minou Drouet. Were they written under the influence or at the dictation of her adoptive mother, Madame Drouet?
1957* 
1958* ONE day when he was 6 years old and making his first trip downtown alone, Fish Tucker was accosted by a white man. His impulse was to run. Never before had a white man spoken to him, nor he to a white man, and Fish was frightened.
1958* THIS is a darkly shaded novel of Americans caught in Tokyo at the beginning of World War II. The life of an enemy alien in Japan was filled with all the horror of nightmare, and yet, for some, was also bound closely to the more normal pursuits of...
1958* STRATFORD, Conn., June 21 -- Since "A Midsummer Night's Dream" is more than three and a half centuries old, one must be cautious about rising absolutes. But on the basis of the exuberant performance staged last Friday at the Shakespeare Festival...
1958* SOMETIME in the year 1742 the pampered son of a wealthy Chinese family that had fallen on evil days began to write a novel in the language of everyday speech, not in the traditional "literary" language of the ancient classics. Tsao Hsueh-chin...
1958* AMERICANS have always recognized Italy as a great treasure house of art. It is also a great studio for American artists. We see that, with the shock of recognition, in Van Wyck Brooks' engaging and perceptive panorama, "The Dream of Arcadia: American...
1958* THE publication in English, for the first time, of a fairly complete version -- or rather, two fairly full versions -- of China's greatest novel, "Dream of the Red Chamber," is a literary event, not only for Americans but for English-speaking people...
1958* ONE of the persistent themes in Henry James (1843-1916) was that life in Europe had a richness, a denseness, an affluence, a feeling for tradition, a sense of the past, and that life in America, for all its pleasantness and high-mindedness, was thin...
1958* LONDON, Nov. 15 (AP) -- Prof. Hideo Itokowa, Japanese rocket expert, has a dream -- to see within ten years passenger rockets streaking across the Pacific from Japan to the United States.
1958* TORONTO -- The biggest expansion in the history of the pipe-making industry in Ontario took place in 1957 with the opening of three new mills representing a total investment of $37,000,000.
1958* ONCE upon a time the executives who direct thoroughbred racing in this state winced whenever the expression "Dream Track" was used. The flinching was induced by pangs of conscience because the operation was all talk and no actuality, a hope...
1959* group in London
1959* A Wild West version of "A Midsummer Night's Dream," with Puck sporting a Davy Crockett hat, will camp at seven cities in England and Scotland this summer.
1959* BRISTOL, England, July 28 -- There is no doubt about it, the company from Howard Payne College in Texas has been the big success so far of the International Festival of University Theatre being held here this week.
1959* STRATFORD - ON - AVON, England, June 2 -- In the production of Shakespeare's "A Midsummer Night's Dream," which was added to the repertoire of the Memorial Theatre here tonight, Peter Hall has broken with all the traditions that usually influence...
1959* Midsummer Night's Dream, A, by B Britten: Britten starts work; world premiere planned at Aldeburgh, Eng, Festival, '60
1959* A booted-and-spurred band of young Texas thespians will sail this afternoon for Plymouth, England, aboard the Plymouth Line ship Flandre to demonstrate to British audiences how Shakespeare might have handled "A Midsummer Night's Dream" in Texas in...
1959* LONDON, June 4 (Reuters) -- An awe-struck London high school audience today gave a rip-roaring welcome to thirty young actors from Texas appearing in a cowboy version of Shakespeare's "A Midsummer Night's Dream."
1959* IN some ways this book is an object lesson to biographers, historians and philosophizers -- also to living subjects of biographies and knowledgeable friends. According to his preface and his remarkable "Bibliographical Essay," Kenneth S. Davis...
1959* Mr. Taubman's article on Anthony Bliss' dream for the future of the Metropolitan Opera Company has evoked enthusiastic interest here.
1959* May I say that your writer misrepresents the subject-matter? There are large numbers of psychoanalysts of many different schools and orientations who have long ago discarded Freud's wish-fulfillment theory of dream interpretation as too narrow and...
1960* One of Webster's definitions for the word "adapt" is "to alter so as to fit for a new use." Undoubtedly, Warner LeRoy must have had this In mind when he undertook the adaptation of Diego Fabbri's "The Trial of Jesus."
1960* ALTHOUGH it was written almost sixty years ago, Strindberg's "Dream Play" is more advanced than much of today's avant-garde drama, As produced at the Theatre East, where it opened last night, it is odd, perplexing and disquieting.
1960* ALTHOUGH the materials of Ketti Frings' "The Long Dream" are vital, the play is heavy. As acted at the Ambassador last evening, it seldom comes alive.
1960* ALDEBURGH, England. SHAKESPEARE has tempted many composers, and there is an abundance of songs, suites, ballets and operas to prove it. The greatest operatic achievements based on the Bard's plays, of course, are Verdi's "Otello" and "Falstaff."
1960* STRATFORD, Ont., June 29 -- In "A Midsummer Night's Dream" you have to take your choice between movement and poetry. Apparently the two can never be happily mated.
1960* EDINBURGH, Scotland, Sept. 5 -- Tonight saw the presentation of the last new play on the official schedule of this year's Edinburgh Festival. The piece was "The Dream of Peter Mann" by Bernard Kops, an allegory of humanity's plight under the "threat...
1960* lrs on S T Williamson rev of K S Davis book The Hero: Charles A Lindbergh and the American Dream
1960* ALDEBURGH, England, June 12 -- Benjamin Britten's setting of "A Midsummer. Night's Dream" is the most ingratiating of all his operas.
1960* After the confusion there is at last a quietness. It is not a perfect quietness, for there is no absolute silence anywhere in man's world today. There is, nevertheless, a quietness all of us feel, even though the festival of Christmas means one thing...
1960* WITH Senator Kennedy's inauguration less than a month away, the political "cuts" are already moving to take up battle positions. Their role, customarily, has not extended beyond keeping the occupant of the White House constantly in their sights and...
1961* IT is agreed that Edward Albee has talent. "The Zoo Story," still running, established that point. "The American Dream," which arrived last night at the York Playhouse, reinforces it even as it raises questions as to the willfull manner in which it...
1961* NATURALLY, all readers of this newspaper know that William Shakespeare probably wrote "A Midsummer Night's Dream" for a wedding at which, perhaps, Queen Elizabeth I herself was present.
1961* SHAKESPEAREAN scholars -- and theatre audiences -- well know that "A Midsummer Night's Dream" has never shone quite so brightly in physical performance as on the printed page.
1961* LONDON, Oct. 25 -- Edward Albee's "The American Dream" and "The Death of Bessie Smith" opened here tonight at the Royal Court Theatre.
1961* The shortage of legitimate theatre houses is giving Broadway the appearance of a checkerboard these days. At least six attractions will be involved in house moves within the next few weeks and one play ("A Place Without Twilight") has delayed...
1961* After sixteen years and many disillusionments, the words of the United Nations Charter still have power to move us. On this, the sixteenth birthday of the U.N., we think of them.
1961* 
1961* WESTBURY, L.I., Oct. 28 -- Stormy Dream, owned by Saul Finkelstein of New Rochelle, tonight scored his third straight victory in the $7,000 Jericho Handicap Pace at Roosevelt Raceway. Stormy Dream beat Muncy Hanover by a half length.
1961* 
1961* 
1962* NORRIS LLOYD'S first novel belongs on the currently crowded shelf of fiction anatomizing small-town Southern life. A tender book, full of comic-pathetic ironies, it paints an undistorted picture of the region where the author spent her youth....
1962* LIFE IS A DREAM," a melodramatic comedy  designed to warm the cockles of a grandparent's heart, opened Saturday night at the Educational Alliance Playhouse.
1962* STRATFORD-ON-AVON, England, April 17--"Midsummer Night's Dream" opened here tonight to hearty laughter at the Royal Shakespeare Theatre. It was the second of six plays to be presented this season.
1962* COLIN WILSON in his new book attempts, to discover  the workings of the imagination in modern literature, and as usual he goes far beyond his announced purpose. Once again he knocks authors about like so many pool balls, now and then sinking one of...
1962* LONDON, July 1--Like New York, London has its Shakespeare in the park.
1962* NEA study shows grade school teachers increased by 5.1% in '62, hs teachers by 13.9%; holds rises reverse of real need
1962* ed on unity moves and obstacles
1962* A few years ago Premier Salazar of Portugal referred contemptuously to what has been happening in Africa as "the so-called winds of change." This week, in the U.N. General Assembly debate, Dr. Vieira Garin of Portugal spoke of "the so-called...
1962* 
1962* FERREIRA DE CASTRO is generally credited with hav  ing introduced a social conscience into the Portuguese novel.
1963* TECHNICALLY speaking, it no longer comes under  the category of news that "The American Dream" and "The Zoo Story" by Edward Albee are back in town. According to the record keepers, this is the third revival for "The American Dream" since its...
1963* SYDNEY, Australia, Oct. 6--  A professional drama company, the Old Tote, has begun an experimental lunch-hour theater in this city's business center.
1963* I Dream of Jeanie, by M Standish with S Foster music: Premiere, St Louis
1963* To open its spring season of contemporary opera,  the New York City Opera Company last night introduced Benjamin Britten's "A Midsummer Night's Dream" to this city. First given in June of 1960, the Britten opera has made the international rounds,...
1963* Midsummer Night's Dream, A, by Shakespeare: Natl Shakespeare Festival, San Diego
1963* 
1963* FOR her first book Susan Sontag, a 30-year old New  Yorker, has chosen to write a carefully "modern" work, a picaresque anti-novel.
1963* 
1963* Elated by the Nasserite revolutions in Yemen and Iraq, President Nasser has revived his old dream of an Arab empire stretching from the Atlantic to the Persian Gulf and has launched a new movement to unite "the whole Arab nation" under the slogan of...
1963* "Will you tell us, in a picture, what Christmas means to you?" This was the question put to children around the world by the Christian Children's Fund, a nondenominational charity organization which supports more than 500 schools and orphanages in 55...
1964* Dream Maker, The
1964* Dream of Swallows, A, by P Zindel
1964* Life Is a Dream, Eng-language version tr by R Campbell, opens; rev; plays to alternate
1964* Midsummer Night's Dream, A, by Shakespeare: NY Shakespeare Festival sets up mobile stage for 57 performances in NYC pks; illus
1964* stage set up, Mt Morris Pk
1964* R Ericson elected vice chmn and H Klein sec of NY Music Critics Circle
1964* unit halts performance for 4th time in face of assault by egg-throwing vandals, Chelsea Pk
1964* 1st performance given
1964* Mayor Wagner proposes permanent Shakespeare Festival Theater
1964* festival raises $21,250 for tour; Taconic Foundation offers matching $35,000 grant
1965* I MET Jack Kennedy in November, 1946, We were both war heroes, and both of us had just been elected to Congress. We went out one night on a double date and it turned out to be a fair evening for me. I seduced a girl who would have been bored by a...
1965* Benjamin Britten's opera, "A Midsummer Night's Dream," was given by the New York City Opera last night at the City Center. While the music cannot be called profound, it is solid entertainment.
1965* PARIS, Nov. 14 -- Puck wears a fireman-red wig and rides a bicycle on stage; Tatiana, a scantily clad Queen of the Fairies, has a Riviera tan and legs like a chorus girl's; Bottom and his cronies dance a sirtaki to music from "Zorba the Greek."
1965* PARIS, Feb. 12 -- "The Zoo Story" and "The American Dream," the Edward Albee double bill that opened at the Lutece Theater here o Wednesday night, has been warmly welcomed by the majority of the French press.
1965* biog by L Geymonat revd; por
1965* IT'S a long slope downward from Beacon Hill to the back alleys of Boston, the setting for this dramatic first novel by a writer who calls herself Sara. Here, among the squalor of crowded tenements and shadowed doorways, immigrant families (Irish,...
1965* 
1965* " THE BUS" pulls into the Trans-Lux 49th Street Theater on Tuesday. The long trip is over and a dream has finally materialized for photographer Haskell Wexler, whose 60-minute documentary focuses on a busload of passengers bound from San Francisco to...
1965* MICHAEL HARRINGTON'S first book, "The Other America: Poverty in the United States," was published three years ago. In that book Mr. Harrington described the reverse face of the affluent society -- poverty in the midst of postwar plenty, particularly...
1965* WHEN Ida Rosenthal went into the business 42 years ago, she didn't dream she'd be celebrating her 80th birthday in her Maidenform bra.
1966* LEONIDAS MATSOUKAS is a Homeric hero behind on his  rent in a Chicago slum. As the oracle of the Pindar SuperCounseling Clinic, he dispenses cut-rate guidance on love, masturbation and real-estate. A lion of the Greek resistance in World War II, he...
1966* ANOTHER foreign expedition by IASTA--the Institute for Advanced Studies in the Theater Arts. This group recently produced "Phedre" at the Off Broadway Greenwich Mews, and last night it opened a Chinese drama at the same theater.
1966* Petrakis, H M: A Dream of Kings
1966* A 27-year-old director who is fast gaining the reputation of being one of the theater's successful innovators is about to present Shakespeare's "A Midsummer Night's Dream" as a black comedy.
1966* "A Midsummer Night's Dream" will be transformed into the first major feature-length ballet film to be made in this country.
1966* There was the crowded inn and the stable where such late-comers as Joseph and Mary took shelter. The Child was born and cradled in a manger. Shepherds on the nearby hills were wakened by the angel and told to go down to Bethlehem where "unto you is...
1966* BORN of Russian parents in 1859, a talented painter and sculptress, Marie Bashkritseff lived mostly in France, and died there is 1884, when she was oniy 25. She is known today chiefly for the voluminous diary she began at the age of ...
1966* DUSSELDORF, Germany  Dusseldorf is an acquis  itive woman's dream. It is the richest city in Germany, and looks it. The buildings are modern but not drab, the streets are broad, and the stores are exceedingly tempting.
1966* THE woman studied each picture as it way handed to her. The third, a drawing of a boy by a  river watching others frolic in the water, brought tears to her eyes. An excessive reaction? Not really. These were not just any drawings; these were...
1966* WASHINGTON, Dec. 5-- Jesse M. Unruh, Democratic speaker of the California Assembly, said today that it was a "pipe dream" to expect Congress to share its tax revenues with the states.
1967* ONE of the mayor pleasures in this collection of essays is its atmosphere of  disinterested inquiry. The tone is lofty and impersonal. Facts are, used to buttress an argument; points are made to illustrate a principle, not to demean an opponent.
1967* MONTREAL, Sept. 19 Expo 67 has played host  to several large European opera companies, from Stockholm, Hamburg, Moscow and Vienna, with La Scala of Milan still to come.
1967* McCall's magazine will underwrite showings of the feature-length ballet film "A Midsummer Night's Dream" in 28 cities across the country to raise funds for the symphony orchestras in those cities.
1967* Seven new plays will be presented this week, four next week and six the week after at the third playwrights' conference sponsored by the Eugene O'Neill Memorial Theater Foundation at Waterford, Conn.
1967* A PROTESTANT minister in Denver recently selected the shell of what once had been destined as a chiropractic institution to be the site of a new hospital designed to treat "the whole man."
1967* JOHN HANCOCK'S staging of "A Midsummer Night's  Dream" sets a kind of highwater mark for avant-garde productions of Shakespeare. It also suggests why such productions don't generally work very well.
1967* STRATFORD, Conn., June 18--I don't normally think  of "A Midsummer Night's Dream" in terms of suspense. I mean, nobody sits through the thing pop-eyed, asking questions like: Will Lysander get Hermia? Will Bottom learn his lines? Will Puck make it...
1967* AN American engineer is sent to an unnamed tropical country to build a bridge that will lead to an as yet undefined border. It is precisely the lack of further definition that gives Stephen Becker's sixth novel a curious power.
1967* WHAT is a national theater anyhow? While we are debating the whole  matter of arriving at an American National Theater-- ...
1967* SERQUIGNY, France--An entire generation has matured since the idea of evolving some kind of "Europe" between America and Russia was originally promulgated. Communist, neutralist and anti-Communist leaders were already speaking ...
1968* OSCAR STRAUS, not to be confused with any of the various members of the Strauss family, composed "A Waltz Dream" in 1907 and it almost immediately made the international rounds. It is one of the last of the great Viennese operettas and, as such,...
1968* STRATFORD, Ontario, June -- There is evidence that "A Midsummer Night's Dream" was in fact a winter's tale, written as part of the entertainment for a wedding at Elizabeth's court in January, 1595.
1968* THIRTY-SIX members of the dramatic clubs of Oxford and Cambridge Universities have joined forces for a holiday tour of the provinces, starting with New York. They offered "A Midsummer Night's Dream" and a late-late revue, "Strictly for Kicks," at...
1968* THE first thing to be said about Theater 1969's experiment with repertory at the Billy Rose Theater -- Edward Albee's "The Death of Bessie Smith" and "The American Dream" joined the bill yesterday -- is that it deserves the support of everybody who...
1968* on USSR invasion crushing Czech dream of dem socialism
1968* The resignation of Bayard Rustin as coordinator of the June 19 mass march on Washington is a serious loss for the Poor People's Campaign and for a strife-torn nation that needs more of Mr. Rustin's kind of moderate, pragmatic leadership.
1968* Beautiful dreamers are likely to turn up at bedtime in replicas of the ruffled and romantic clothes they've been wearing to parties -- mid-calf length and all. Lingerie designers have whipped up a froth of delicious night clothes, all ruffles and...
1968* Recently, my husband and I, Pinter devotees for some time, viewed the Public Broadcast Laboratory's presentation of his play "The Dwarfs." It was a profound experience. The discussion period prior to the actual showing of the play was most...
1968* 
1968* " I HAVE a dream," Arthur Mitchell said in poignant, deliberate echo, "and you've got to start somewhere." So he went up to Harlem a few weeks ago and got started. From a church basement there, from a straggly line-up of children and teen-agers in...
1969* Iris Murdoch has never been an easy novelist to assess She began, fifteen years ago, by astonishing and delighting with the prodigality of her talents. Then, from "A Severed Head" onward, it seemed to some of us that the nature of her talents was...
1969* IN "Bruno's Dream," Iris Murdoch gives her characters hot, wild, late-blooming love affairs. Then she tears their passions to tatters.
1969* Freud's impact on his followers was overwhelming, and perhaps as a result many of his pupils have done little more than consolidate and preserve the master's findings. The relative absence of original thinking within psychoanalysis has become all the...
1969* AS many have described it, the main goal of the people who first settled Israel's communal farms (or kibbutzim) was to scrap the old Jew and invent a new one. They had to destroy the traditional family structure of the Eastern European ghetto, from...
1969* MOST of the time, the days of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy and his liberal-baiting seem happily distant. Just once in a while they seem not quite so distant. I suppose as long as some people continue to keep lists of other people, there will always be...
1969* This is a different kind of novel. Perhaps different isn't the word: odd is more like it. All right -- "What Shy Men Dream" is an absolute oddity.
1969* I HAVE been sitting in the theater puzzled by practically everything that happened all week, but I think I have come away with one possibly encouraging piece of information. The younger generation, the new and the now generation, isn't one whit...
1969* Excerpts from views expressed at recent acad assn meeting; por
1969* My wholehearted agreement with Walter Kerr's view of "Hadrian VII" ended abruptly when Mr. Kerr criticized the structure of Peter Luke's play on the grounds that the plot which ends Hadrian VII's career is "unbelievably gauche."
1969* Some thirty self-appointed vigilantes, armed with chains, lead pipe and baseball bats, mustered defiantly in front of a house of worship in Manhattan one evening last month to "protect" it against a Negro militant petitioner whom the rabbi and his...
1970* Like many other good male poets, the author of these lines, now 84, enjoys ogling girls. His aphroditic visions are declared to be in the "bikini-clad" present, though they are capable of evoking a sensuality and wonder that seem older, larger, more...
1970* It is surprising how many good--and for that matter, bad--American plays have at their core the relationship of a father with his son. And, of course, we have the plays dealing with the generation gap, a gap often widened by an immigrant from the old...
1970* P Brook production presented by Royal Shakespeare Co will be brought to Bway in Jan by D Merrick Arts Foundation
1970* STRATFORD-ON-AVON, England, Aug. 27 Once in a while, once in a very rare while, a theatrical production arrives that is going to be talked about as long as there is a theater, a production that, for good or ill, is going to exert a major influence on...
1970* Sam Levene, whose acting career goes back more than 40 years, will make his off Broadway debut next month in a new drama with music and dance called "A Dream Out of Time" by Irv Bauer.
1970* STRATFORD-ON-AVON, Eng. IT BEING staged by Peter  Brook, famed for "Marat/ Sade," it goes almost without saying that this  is a defoliated "Midsummer Night's Dream." Gone from the Royal Shakespeare Company's production are the terpsichorean fairies,...
1970* John Ashbery takes his title, "The Double Dream of Spring," from a painting by de Chirico; and so puts us on warning that we are stepping through the looking glass into those deep perspectives and receding landscapes of the mind. He leads us, once we...
1970* Once upon a time there was a prince who grew up in a gingerbread castle decorated with mediocre paintings of the Grail legend, Tannhauser and the swan-knight Lohengrin.
1970* The nationwide retreat from school integration is a betrayal not only of a promise made to Negro parents but of a vision that is inseparable from the American destiny. The special tragedy of the retreat is that it is dictated by a strategy of...
1970* 
1971* Harold Wilson may be premature in claiming that the reunification of Ireland is now "on the agenda," but his carefully prepared proposals looking to that eventuality have pushed discussions of the Ulster crisis off dead center. The former Prime...
1971* Thanksgiving Day sprang from our own beginnings at a time when those first settlers were grateful to be alive and have enough to eat. They asked little of life, but much of themselves. They were thankful for the strength to put down the roots of...
1971* 
1971* To the sordid record of police corruption unveiled by the Knapp Commission has now been added an even more depressing saga of official indifference born of the apparent belief that graft was so ingrained it was better left unchallenged.
1971* PARIS, May 21 -- It is a pity that George Bernard Shaw is not alive to observe the mixed pain and hope of Britain's romance with the European Community. He might have seen ironic parallels to the history of his own country, Ireland, in the choice...
1971* After being hailed as "Fakhr al Islam" -- pride of Islam -- Muhammad Ali fulfilled the dream of all Moslems by visiting Mecca. At the Red Sea city of Jidda, Prince Faisal ben Fahd, head of Saudi Arabia's youth welfare department, told the boxer: "
1971* At a time when our systems of dealing with social deviance and dependence seem in perilous disrepair, when courts and jails are in turmoil, welfare snarled, hospitals swollen, and "law and order" become no more than the bully's rallying cry, this...
1971* 
1971* GREENWICH, Conn. -- Mrs. Walter Gruber of Bedford, N. Y., has found what she says is the perfect way to look after her family and still hold a part-time job that is better than clerical work.
1971* VACOAS, Mauritius -- Russian national instincts have shown remarkable persistence, ignoring the ideological contradictions of Russian Governments. Thus, on the one hand, Red Star could write last year: "The age-old dreams of our people have become a...
1972* MINNEAPOLIS -- It is a brave thing, here and now, to attempt Shakespeare's "A Midsummer Night's Dream" immediately after Peter Brook's realization of the play. Here in Minneapolis, at the Tyrone Guthrie Theater, John Hirsch has staged a new...
1972* " Keeping the chief executive in his place -- one rung down (subordinate to the chairman) -- has its virtues." Of course, everybody in the company knows that the chief executive is the boss and is one rung down from nobody.
1972* With some people, familiarity doesn't breed contempt; it breeds skepticism. Count Robert Heller in that number. This Britishborn, Cambridge-educated writer on business and finance, editor of Management Today, has been studying the folkways of...
1972* Though he bore little resemblance to Jean-Jacques Rousseau's cigar store Indian, the Noble Savage actually did exist. Before being corrupted by contact with more "advanced" cultures, there were probably a number of societies that qualified for the...
1972* For his first out of the gate as a novelist-journalist, Joe McGinniss ("The Selling of the President 1968") has chosen the world of the racetrack as his motif. When the muses are calling the parade to post, he sprints along at a pretty snappy pace.
1972* If you'd like to know what Whistler's mother was really like off her rocker (a holy terror!) Mr. Berkman's novel will fill you in. It also fleshes out the life and times of the belligerent Butterfly himself: his esthetics, his artistic integrity, his...
1972* A species of giant Stone Age primate, surviving in an Andean volcano? Before you say "Poppycock!" read this latest venture into unnatural history by the author of "The Lost Ones." Mighty convincing. We are dealing here with Paranthropus, 7-feet tall,...
1972* The grand illusion that became the Panama Canal continues to attract historians -- a volume last year and now "The Impossible Dream," which is by far the best yet. Mr. Cameron, an Englishman, has a thorough understanding of the engineering problems...
1972* 
1972* Between them, President Nixon and the Democrats on the House Appropriations Committee seem intent upon smothering that admirable expression of American idealism, the Peace Corps.
1973* One of the most pleasant and perhaps coziest off Off Broadway evenings In town s the Shade Company's "A Midsummer Night's Dream," performedd in a tiny downtown loft theater with skill, charm and bare feet. Anyone demanding splendor had better stay...
1973* CALIFORNIA. The Vanishing Dream. By Michael Davie. 272 pages. Illustrated. Dodd, Mead. $7.95 I guess what I admire most about Michael Davie's "California: The Vanishing Dream" is that it confounds a theory I had recently tooled up. Just lately, I had...
1973* In his detailed message to Congress on human resources, President Nixon. has outlined a major retreat by the Federal Government from its social responsibilities. He seeks to abolish the community action programs begun as part of the Johnson...
1973* EARNEST study follows earnest study, in the immortal words of New York Times columnist John Corry, and nowhere are they more earnest than in the housing field.
1973* California voters, not invariably immune to the bizarre nostrums of ambitious politicians, showed good sense last week in emphatically rejecting Gov.Ronald Reagan's scheme for shrinking state spending and state income taxes by constitutional...
1973* MONTREAL-One fine day like the day after tomorrow while the Canadian Energy Minister was minding his own business by saying the Alaska oil pipeline was really an "internal matter" in the U.S.A. and not for Canadians
1973* Lysander and Hermia and Demetrius and Helena were with us again, courtesy of the New York City Ballet, at the State Theater on Wednesday night. Lysander loves Hermia, and Hermia loves Lysander, but Demetrius also loves Hermia, and Helena loves...
1973* DETROIT - During lunchtime of every business day the street outside the Detroit Club, where top executives meet, is filled with chauffeur-driven Cadillacs.
1973* OTTAWA-The best hope of forestalling an oil pipeline across the state of Alaska-a project long anathema to most environmentalists-has been the discovery of an acceptable alternative. For many months that alternative has been widely thought to lie in...
1973* SCENE: The corner table of a Wall Street luncheon club. Two nervous stockbrokers are whispering with an Informed Source who happens to be a close friend of James J. Needham. BROKER A: "What the hell is Needham really up to? He's been chairman of the...
1974* PURE DESIRE, five dream stories, directed by Jim Shiflett; music and sound composed and arranged by Melissa Shiflett, State manager, Steve Meyer. The Dream Theater presented by the Body Politic. At the Performing Garage, 33 Wooster Street. WITH Beth...
1974* President Nixon in Jordan today winds up his whirlwind quest for what he had earlier described in Jerusalem as "the possible dream" of peace in the Middle East. There are grounds for Mr. Nixon's cautious optimism in the cordial reception the American...
1974* There is no dream that cannot be defeated by inflation and bureaucracy. But nothing is more vulnerable to rising costs and red tape than the dream of a better place to live. In New York, West Village Houses was an experiment in putting that dream...
1974* The Federal Government's brave experiment in guaranteeing a basic minimum income for the needy aged, blind and disabled is bringing increased hardship and despair-instead of the promised dignity-to hundreds of thousands in New York and other states.
1974* LONDON--Nobody in Britain sees the election tomorrow as offering any solution to the country's problems, although few are yet prepared to discuss it as the last spasm of a dying parliamentary democracy.
1974* IN 1927, a Seattle businessman named Boyce Gulley sat in front of the family fireplace with his year-old daughter and promised her that' one day he would bulid her a castle. The next day, Boyce Gulley disappeared.
1974* BADDEST DADDY IN THE WHOLE WORLD, a documentary by Fred Haines, 52 minutes; CHISHOLM: PURSUING THE DREAM, a documentary by Robert Denby and Tom Werner, 52 minutes. At the Whitney Museum of American Art, Madison Avenue and 75th Street, through...
1974* "The Dream," Sir Frederick Ashton's 1964 treatment of "A Midsummer Night's Dream" and Twyla Tharp's recent "As Time Goes By" were the new 'highlights of the City Center Joffrey Ballet's fall season.
1974* Weequahic High School in 196566 and 1966-67 had what some observers felt was the finest schoolboy basketball team ever to play in New Jersey, and quite possibly in the entire country. Each of the five starters played college ball, and two reached the...
1974* The point of "National Town Meetings," a new series carried Sundays at 4:30 P.M. on the Public Broadcasting Service, is to "rekindle the spirit of participatory democracy in the United States."
1975* Yale Repertory Theater literary mgr Michael Feingold article rebuts W Kerr's May 25 rev of production of Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream
1975* These two books are both concerned with the discovery of the pre-Classical civilizations of the Aegean area. "The Dream of Troy" is a biography of Henrich Schliemann, the first excavator of Troy and Mycenae. "The Secret of Crete" tells the story of...
1975* NEW HAVEN Two contrasting, but theatrically compatible, versions of "A Midsummer Night's Dream" are being performed simultaneously at the Yalc Repertory Theater Henry Purcell's "The Fairy Queen," excerpts of which act as background score, and a...
1975* Broadway's "Rodgers and Hart" has Rodgers and Hart and Yale's "A Midsummer Night's Dream" has a moon. Rodgers and Hart are made of sugar and spice, and the moon is made of popcorn.
1975* In "A Midsummer Night's Dream" a play written by Shakespeare or a dream of Peter Brook? Seldom has there been a production that has so altered our perception of a play as did Mr. Brook's fantastical circus conception.
1975* At the end of "The Wind in the Wiilows" the chastened Mr. Toad has cause for that feeling of triumph which practical Badger forces him to stifle. Toad and his friends have not only defeated the stoats and the weasels, but they have effectively done...
1975* It was in 1951, when Conrad Bromberg was 15 years old, that his father, J. Edward Bromberg, died. By then a half-dozen years of resistance to prodding by various unAmerican activities groups had turned the father from a prominent actor into a man who...
1975* 2 books about investing money, Dance of the Money Bees by John Train and The Impossible Dream by Ronald L Sobel and Robert E Dallos, revd by Peter Grose
1975* One of the oldest and most persistent visions of America, at home and abroad, is as the inheritor of the future. James Bryce, after his visit a century ago, wrote that American democracy was of interest because its institutions were regarded as those...
1975* Franklin D Roosevelt Drive (NYC): Ed scores NYC Hwys Dept's failure to install drains in Franklin D Roosevelt Drive to end flooding of rd when it rains
1976* There are people who deliberately seek out the front rows of movie theaters, Risking headache and distorted vision, they find pleasure in the sheer intensity, the claustrophobic immersion that sitting close to the screen provides them. Something like...
1976* AN INSUFFICIENT talent is the cruelest of all temptations, George Moore said. It is perhaps the most painful form of  unrequlted love, consuming the spirit instead of replenishing it. For some, it is like a religion that can never be wholly...
1976* WASHINGTON In the years since Emlyn  Williams turned into Charles Dickens for our theatergoing pleasure and Hal Holbrook made a name for himself by pretending to be Mark Twain, the one-man or onewoman show has become a staple of the American stage....
1976* WASHINGTON, April 5 (AP) Fighting back tears after a preview showing of "I Have a Dream," the widow of the slain civil rights leader, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., led a theater audience tonight in singing "We Shall Overcome."
1976* DORIS KEARNS'S "Lyndon Johnson and the American Dream" is finally so unusual in its thoughtfulness and sense of responsi  bility to the past that it seems almost unfair to it to recall the fairy tale that led to its conception.
1976* to close after 80 performances (S)
1976* Jocelyn and Fred Jerome lr regretting play 'I Have a Dream,' on Martin Luther King Jr, does not depict more of civil rights movement itself
1976* Play I Have a Dream, based on civil rights movement and life of M L King Jr, revd; Mrs King and Rev M L King Sr illus at opening (M)
1976* HE was first thrust into the public eye as "Billy Dee Williams, jock" the result of his outstanding portrayal of a football player in the Emmy-win  ning 1971 television movie, "Brian's Song." Then came two plum movie roles as Diana Ross's dream man,...
1976* Why are all those people crying at the Museum of Modern Art? They are New Yorkers, weeping bitter tears at the taxi show, dreaming the impossible dream of comfortable, clean, safe, attractive cabs.
1977* MUNICH Ingmar Bergman's complex and exciting production of August Strindberg's "A Dream Play" is a smash hit at the Residenz Theater  of Munich, a playhouse of which the world has not heard very much lately. But the world had better accommodate...
1977* WHEN Eugene D. Jones left the Landmark Club in Stamford one recent night, he was trying to decide  whether the music he had just heard had the financial ring of "Pajama Game," one of Broadway's biggest musical hits of the 1950's.
1977* STRATFORD, Ontario, June 7 It was virtually a state occasion here last night when the remarkable theater fes  tival founded 25 years ago by the late Sir Tyrone Guthrie had its formal opening. There was a tent on the lawn for drinks, long black cars...
1977* Wechsberg, Joseph: Dream Towns of Europe revd by R Walters
1977* 
1977* HARTFORD MORE THAN 50 years ago a quiet migration began. A handful of villagers and farmers and some city resi  dents from Portugal pulled up their roots and came to Connecticut.
1977* Northfield, Mass. To find Dan and Robin Woodard'shouse, you drive over a mountain on a blacktop road until the blacktop ends, down a rutted dirt lane until the lane ends, and then you walk.
1977* NEW JERSEY, in its long, often glorious, existence as a state has had a goodly number of "firsts" to its credit, but,  frankly, I can't remember one of them. Perhaps when my mind stops screaming for me to get these thoughts onto paper I'll look up...
1977* Samuel DeMilia, the new president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, takes office facing the same problem that forced his two immediate predecessors to quit within the last nine months: anything he can get from the city the membership is...
1977* performance of John Neumeier's 'Ein Sommernachtstraum,', Ballet Festival, W Ger, revd by Clive Barnes; Neumeier por
1978* ATHENS TULES DASSIN, the Americanborn, French-named, Athensbased director, has, through a peripatetic career spanning 39  years, racked up resounding successes ...
1978* WHO are we? Gentle readers of The New York Times Book Review, partisans of the middle class. But suppose we were shoved off our  safety zones and had to settle somewhere else. Hubert Selby, author of "Last Exit to Brooklyn," takes us into "that part...
1978* IN a preface to his latest novel, Romain Gary disarmingly confesses to failure. "But then," he adds, "I have always preferred to fail rather than  not to attempt. I have even come to think that civilizations are something failures are slowly building...
1978* As deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget during the Nixon Administration, Frederic V. Malek gained a reputation as a hatchet man, ruthlessly cutting his way through the Civil Service thicket.
1978* DETROIT FROM the start, automobiles have been creatures of fantasy, inventions in which the dreams were as important as the cogs  and chains that drove them. And, as the industry grew, so did the business of nourishing the fancy for autos with facts,...
1978* If we are to understand and influence the current maneuvering in the Middle East, it is essential to distinguish between the absurd and the solemn in the news.
1978* IT is always an unsettling experience to open a new book of poems by Adrienne Rich. Something, you feel, is going to be expected of you, something  you suspect you may not be quite up to. For Miss Rich's poems do not demand the willing suspension of...
1978* HER name and home port are painted on her stern: Enchantress. Port Jefferson. Less than a month ago she was lying alongside a wharf at the Goat Island Marina in Newport, R.I.,  like a tired refugee from the 18th century. More than a hundred people...
1978* CHICAGO, Jan. 17--To lovers of kitchen gadgetry, Chicago's huge exhibition hall, McCormick Place, would be considered a promised land this week.
1978* NOW comes that smothering midsummer bore, baseball's so-called All-Star Game, which started 45 years ago as a circulation booster for The Chicago Tribune and has developed into the Trac II Classic,  a massive sales campaign for razor blades.
1979* ABRAHAM GOLDFADEN, the founder of modern Yiddish theater more than a century ago, peopled the stage with  characters that became part of Yiddish folklore and expression. In "A Goldfaden Dream," the colorful musical now ...
1979* FREUD, in an early burst of enthusiasm, called dreams "The Royal Road to the Unconscious" and accounted his dream theory to be his great  est discovery. He fantasized that one day a marble tablet would be placed in the house where his "Irma" dream...
1979* VARIOUS misleading critical cliches surround us. One of them is the view that, despite the petty temptations of the French nouveau roman and ...
1979* MADISON TODAY, when Shakespearean productions are no longer ruled by the theories of Jan Kott, we are not compelled to see the playwright as an existentialist, an absurdist or, for that matter, as a "contemporary" ...
1979* WHEN Benjamin Britten's operatic version of "A Midsummer Night's Dream"  had its premiere in 1960 at Aldeburgh in England, it won enormous critical acclaim, in part because ...
1979* HAVING SENT up the famous New York restaurant of the title, its literary, journalistic and show-business clientele, the Watergate investigation and much else, "Murder at Elaine's" finally sends itself up, leaving behind impressions as fragmentary as...
1979* LAYTON  THE Delaware River Valley is breathtakingly beautiful in spring. To the left of River Road, heading north, the land drops off steeply; below lies a green canopy of trees alive with birds. Beyond, the sparkling river ripples over a broad,...
1979* WASHINGTON--Liberal members of Congress--because liberals increasingly becoming former members of Congress--are trying to shed their political label.
1979* NEW CAANAN ARON BRESLOW is nothing if  not a practical man. After 21 years as a manager of his family's retail stationery  business, he researched and wrote a children's history book and, finding no takers for the project, founded his own company to...
1979* STAMFORD  CONNECTICUT has produced three world boxing champions: Willie Pep, Louis (Kid) Kaplan and Battling Battali  no; a football player who is enshrined ...
1980* "YOU want the movies so much it's like a fire inside you," says Mama Kessler, played by Kaye Ballard, speaking to  impetuous young Johnny Edge. "I don't know who it's going to burn."
1980* CAMBRIDGE, Mass., March 23 --Traditionally, a show spent  two weeks in New Haven before moving to Boston. Robert Brustein spent 13 years in New Haven before moving to Boston--opening last night with "A Midsummer Night's Dream."
1980* THE version of Shakespeare's "Midsummer Night's Dream"  that opened, unseasonally enough, last night at the La Mama Annex, is certainly an ambitious, elaborate venture--a nearly ...
1980* EAST HAMPTON EVER since he was a child, Wayne Young has wanted to build a dollhouse. ''But in my generation little boys weren't allowed to play with things like that,'' he said.         So his boyhood dream had to be deferred - until this year, when,...
1980* EXCEPT for the original New Dealers, no group was more stimulated by the Great Depression  than writers going left. In the first days of the Depression, whole families were receiving on home relief a weekly average of $2.39 to cover food, rent,...
1980* LOOKING over my notes on Malcolm Cowley's gracefully written, quietly reflective memoir  of the 1930's, I noticed something I hadn't been aware of while reading the book. Take as one tiny example, the title of a chapter called ...
1980* UNDER THE FIFTH SUN A Novel of Pancho Villa.  By Earl Shorris.  622 pp. New York: Delacorte Press.  $14.95.         NOVELISTS are a strange breed. They won't let the dead lie still.  They poke  about and bring back all sorts of people. Is there a...
1980* Most criticism of Ronald Reagan's attempt to forge the so-called dream ticket with former President Gerald R. Ford is far off the mark. Far from raising questions about Mr. Reagan's decisionmaking abilities or Mr. Ford's intentions,  the events of...
1980* President Carter's new economic structure is small and inadequate.  In a time of extraordinary economic problems, he offers only the most ordinary policies. They may satisfy the campaign ahead, but not the challenge of governing beyond.  Even if...
1980* WASHINGTON--Most criticism of Ronald Reagan's attempt to forge the so-called dream ticket with former President Gerald R. Ford is far off the mark. Far from raising questions about Mr. Reagan's decision-making abilities or Mr. Ford's intentions, the...
1981* THE Capitol Market, boarded up with weatherworn plywood, stands empty on the west side of Dixwell Avenue. Across the street, graffiti can be seen in the hallways of old public housing barracks, their doors wide open in the middle of winter. Down one...
1981* A New York State Senator, Thomas J. Bartosiewicz of Brooklyn, flew off to Florida last night on a quixotic quest. He'll ask the Los Angeles Dodgers to support a new Brooklyn major league baseball franchise - to be known as the Brooklyn Dodgers.
1981* Now, in the bosky hollows of Tennessee summer, the South Floridians who bought their Smoky Mountain dream lots for $1,000 down and $125 a month are thinking about a search for the last honest developer.   To hear them tell it, they were lured here in...
1981* He is not the best-known man in the oil and gas industry. Nor is he, as he puts it with only a hint of a smile, ''the most loved man in the industry.''   But last week John G. McMillian discovered that he was the talk of the business world, precisely...
1981* In an author's note to ''A Dream Play,'' his own favorite of all his works, August Strindberg indicated that he had tried to imitate ''the logical shape of a dream.'' In a dream and in the play, ''the imagination spins, weaving new patterns, a...
1981* Jorge Velasquez won the 106th running of the Preakness Stakes, but it was only in a dream last night. Tomorrow, he expects it to happen for real when he takes Pleasant Colony to the post.   He told about his dream as the owners of the 14 colts...
1981* ''LA Vida es Sueno'' by Pedro Calderon de la Barca is a 17thcentury Spanish classic with modern overtones. The play's hero, trapped between reality and illusion, is a man who cheats fate, asserts his individual will and learns to control his own...
1981* The Boston Celtics' dressing room was nearly empty. Only Nate (Tiny) Archibald, the 33-year-old Celtics co-captain and playmaker, remained late last night, quietly celebrating his first National Basketball Association championship while his teammates...
1981* Giorgio Chinaglia often says privately that the dream of every scorer in soccer is to average a goal a game. His two goals in Tulsa Friday night in a 2-1 overtime victory over the Roughnecks moved him closer to such an accomplishment.   He goes into...
1981* MAKING SCENES A Personal History of the Turbulent Years at Yale, 1966-1979.  By Robert Brustein.  Illustrated. 341 pp. New York: Random House. $15.   ROBERT BRUSTEIN has neither a style nor a temperament ideally suited to ''personal history.''...
1982* WITH the third flight of the space shuttle Columbia imminent, and the completion of its test program expected this summer, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration now has in mind a new and equally challenging goal, the establishment of a...
1982* Will Soviet tennis players return to the United States Open next month? After two Soviet players, 17-year-old Julia Salnikova and Ludmila Makarova, 23, reached the semifinals of a $10,000 United States Tennis Association/Nike women's event yesterday...
1982* Frances L. Miller was sitting in her freshly washed kitchen at her home in the residential North End of Bridgeport, Conn. ''I'm scared to death,'' she said as she nibbled nervously on a slice of chocolate cake she had baked to celebrate her older...
1982* THE waves were over 20 feet high and the winds stronger than 60 miles an hour on that eighth day at sea. ''The sun was setting in the west and we were sinking in the east,'' Jon Craig Cloutier said.   Mr. Cloutier, a film maker, was one of nine...
1982* KIBBUTZ MAKOM Report From an Israeli Kibbutz.  By Amia Lieblich.  318 pp. New York: Pantheon Books. $16.50.   ANYONE who knows the kibbutz knows that it works. Over its 70-year history, it has proven its economic viability and its social stability....
1982* Look past the headlines from Israel these days -the dismissal of West Bank Mayors, the resulting protest, the shooting of Arab demonstrators - and you see a fundamental reality: Israel is trying, by force, to bring a million Palestinians under its...
1982* ''I built my dream house, but my wife didn't like it,'' said Don Kirshner. ''She only wanted a little place.'' So last fall the rock music promoter put the place up for sale: 17 rooms, an indoor disco, two tennis courts, basketball court, pool and...
1982* The following letter was sent to the New Jersey Weekly by William H. Rundle, 47 years old, who has been in institutions since he was 5 and in the Essex County Hospital for 15 years. Despite severe physical handicaps, he has helped publish a patients'...
1982* To the Editor:     There are certain massive lessons to be learned from the Polish tragedy that should not be lost amid clever rhetoric. Your Jan. 10 editorial ''The Kennan Doctrine'' strikes me as an alarming example of the latter.   he lessons...
1982* Five women were sitting in the treatment room of a cosmetics parlor Saturday, their faces piled with mud packs, wrinkle-erasing ointments and various creams. One remarked listlessly that tangerines were in the shops for the first time in a year.  ...
1983* Much was said and much more was done during ''History, an American Dream,'' the performance event that Anne Bogart offered Thursday night in St. Mark's Church.    The talkers were actors portraying figures from American history, and because they...
1983* THE story of Langston Hughes's discovery as a poet has become legendary. While working as a busboy in a hotel in Washington in the 1920's, he left several of his poems at the table of Vachel Lindsay. A celebrated poet and reader of his own work,...
1983* shady site, when your heart longs for a sun-drenched, old-fashioned English perennial garden, can be depressing. No matter that your friends extoll the garden's ease of maintenance or that your husband beams with pleasure at his weedfree lawn. If...
1983* He won 13 national wrestling titles and competed in two Olympics and four World Games, but that was a long time ago, and at the age of 46,  Russ Camilleri thought it was time for a comeback. So this fall Camilleri went to Iowa City, where he joined...
1983* It's owner is Lucy Mackall, a young entrepreneur who has struck gold twice within the past few years: first with her franchised ''Have a Heart'' boutiques and again with what turned out to be the ''pet rock'' of the 1980-81 season - shoelaces...
1983* For the last 11 years, Christine Lilyquist has been supervising the reinstallation of the entire collection of ancient Egyptian art and artifacts of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the job has taken over her life.   In fact, Dr. Lilyquist, who is...
1983* Stanley Floyd, the championship sprinter, reportedly wants to forsake a chance to make the United States Olympic team and try out for a pro football team, according to his agent, Steve Olschwanger.
1983* What's happening in River Edge, N.J., summarizes both of America's suburban revolutions. Plumbers, carpenters, electricians and others are fighting an ordinance that this Bergen County suburb enacted last fall.
1983* When I said I never dreamed, sleep authorities laughed. Everyone dreams, they said. It is scientifically established: Where there is sleep, there must be dreams. ''You are refusing for some reason to remember your dreams,'' I was told by a woman who...
1983* Ed Bowes, the former runner for Manhattan College who established the Manhattan College interscholastic cross-country meet in 1973, is now pondering whether his dream has become too successful.   ''When we held our first meet 10 years ago, we had...
1984* A report in the Briefing column of the Washington Talk page on June 15 misidentified the sponsor of a reading of ''Ulysses'' in Washington. The reading, on June 16-17, was organized and staffed by Pleasant Dream Productions, headed by Herbert...
1984* ''A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM'' is a kind of artistic Rorschach test for theater companies. Those drawn to the lyricism of Shakespeare's poetry and captivated by the visual fantasies of an enchanted forest usually try to weave some sort of romantic...
1984* Werner Herzog, the West German director, brought a new film about the clash of civilizations in Australia to Cannes today. After the showing, the Cannes Film Festival was still awaiting its first hit, or its first scandal, but Mr. Herzog provided an...
1984* A giddy announcement Wednesday by Belmont Park officials that All Along was returning to the United States to run against John Henry in the Turf Classic on Sept. 22 was as puzzling as it was exciting, and it turns out to have been a bit premature....
1984* Next year, this day, January 15, will officially become a national holiday. Official or not, it's a fit day to reflect on the death, and life, of Martin Luther King Jr., who would have been 55 years old today.   That his life was ended by an...
1984* THE AMERICAN WINE revolution really dates from the late 1960's.  Those were the days when a kind of general love affair with Europe, especially France, combined with an economy that still generated disposable income to change the eating and drinking...
1984* If the Democrats had any doubts about the combined powers of the Presidency, Hollywood and television, Ronald Reagan must have brought them to their senses with his State of the Union performance.    The man makes Johnny Carson sound like an amateur....
1984* Can you think of one good reason why horse-racing fans shouldn't be able to sit back in the cozy comfort of their living rooms watching live telecasts of an evening's card and placing bets by telephone right up to post time?    Rick Abrams can't, and...
1984* 
1984* Down the street from Disneyland, where fantasies are fulfilled, the Giants start living out a fantasy of their own Sunday. At 3:30 P.M., New York time, they play the Los Angeles Rams in a wild-card game at Anaheim Stadium on the opening weekend of...
1985* EDGAR ALLAN POE'S ''Fall of the House of Usher'' may have the germ of an effective opera in it, but a master's hand, bold and subtle, would be required to put its people on the stage in flesh and blood without dispelling the haze that half shrouds...
1985* THE day my husband's dream became my reality was the day I should have packed it in.    Herb is a Virgo. He rides the commuter train daily, but likes working with his hands on weekends, so he putters around the house, seriously. But it was when his...
1985* THE time is the early 1960's, and the setting is a typical American high school. The principal is uptight, but the students are flexing their freedom. Offstage we hear a chorus of ''Chapel of Love,'' followed, in the course of the evening, by a...
1985* THE DREAM BOOK An Anthology of Writings by Italian American Women. Edited with an introduction by Helen Barolini. 397 pp. New York: Schocken Books. $19.95.   THE Italian immigrants to America were different from other ethnic groups, and nowhere is...
1985* KING ISLAND CHRISTMAS By Jean Rogers. Illustrated by Rie Munoz. Unpaged. New York: Greenwillow. $11.75 (Ages 5 to 8) THE DONKEY'S DREAM By Barbara Helen Berger. Unpaged. New York: Philomel. $12.95 (Ages 5 to 8) THAT mysterious thing, the spirit of...
1985* ADVERTISING THE AMERICAN DREAM Making Way for Modernity, 1920-1940. By Roland Marchand. Illustrated. 448 pp. Berkeley: University of California Press. $27.50; $35 after Dec. 31.   MODERNITY'S town criers,'' Roland Marchand calls the advertising men...
1985* THE Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was one of the great orators of modern times. The civil rights leader and apostle of nonviolent protest developed a style of public address that fused the sacred and the secular, the musical and the prosaic into a...
1985* The wonder of ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'' is its adaptability. It can contain so many alternative interpretations, from the feathery, fairy-dust traditional approach to Peter Brook's radical version to the moonstruck world envisioned several years...
1985* SOMETIMES while watching a Werner Herzog film, whether it's ''Even Dwarfs Started Small'' (1969), ''Aguirre, the Wrath of God'' (1972), ''The Mystery of Kasper Hauser'' (1974) or ''Fitzcarraldo'' (1981), I get the feeling that this intense, hugely...
1985* NINE INNINGS By Daniel Okrent. 272 pp. New York: Ticknor & Fields. $16.95.   THE idea of setting a book within a single baseball game goes back at least to 1955, when Arnold Hano published a splendid, since-neglected piece of reporting called ''A Day...
1986* WITH a somber demeanor and the latest equipment, Tangerine Dream brought thoroughly elementary music to the Beacon Theater on Saturday night.   In the early 1970's, Tangerine Dream, led by Edgar Froese, was one of the first rock groups to turn to...
1986* HIGH technology is standard equipment for Tangerine Dream, the West German trio that has sold out the Beacon Theater Saturday for its first New York concert in nine years. Founded in 1967 by Edgar Froese, Tangerine Dream virtually abandoned guitars...
1986* Edgar Allan Poe's famous tale ''The Fall of the House of Usher'' is a juicy operatic property. Debussy toyed futilely with it for years, and we deeply mourn the loss.
1986* When Conrad Bromberg was a teen-ager, his father, the Hollywood actor J. Edward Bromberg, was blacklisted. Unable to find a job in films, the elder Mr. Bromberg moved his family from their 15-room house in Beverly Hills back to New York, where he had...
1986* Patrick Joseph Burke eluded Federal marshals for five years after he disappeared in 1981, when he was on probation for distributing cocaine.
1986* WELL into ''Hold the Dream,'' the two-part, four-hour television movie that begins at 8 o'clock tonight on Channel 11, Paula, spirited granddaughter of the fabulously successful Emma Harte, whimpers that ''Grandy had her dream, I'm just a...
1986* ALTHOUGH Conrad Bromberg, the author of ''Dream of a Blacklisted Actor,'' isn't the first son who ever hoped to resolve his rage at his father by writing a play, his pursuit of this ambition is more problematic than most. Mr. Bromberg's real-life...
1986* DESCARTES' DREAM The World According to Mathematics. By Philip J. Davis and Reuben Hersh. Illustrated. 321 pp. Boston: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich. $19.95.    ON Nov. 10, 1619, Rene Descartes, following a prolonged period of intense concentration, had...
1986* NICK LAIRD-CLOWES, the 28-year-old guitarist, singer and leader of the English pop trio the Dream Academy, wears his hair below his shoulders and dresses in black velvet suits with Nehru collars. While this late-60's John Lennon look may be overly...
1986* Manifest Destiny, expansion to the Pacific and even beyond to China, mapping the new continent, buffalo stampedes, avalanches and, of course, a love affair, brought to living-color life by Richard Chamberlain, prince of mini-series (''Shogun,'' ''The...
1987* LEAD:  FOX'S DREAM  By Tejima. Illustrated by the author. Unpaged. New York: Philomel Books. $13.95. (Ages 3 and up)
1987* LEAD:  TWO LIVES AND A DREAM  By Marguerite Yourcenar. Translated by Walter Kaiser in collaboration with the author. 245 pp. New York: Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $16.95.
1987* LEAD:  To the Editor:
1987* LEAD: There are literally hundreds of operas based on plays by Shakespeare, but few remain as faithful to both the letter and spirit of the playwright's text as Britten's ''Midsummer Night's Dream,'' which the Glimmerglass Opera staged here tonight.
1987* LEAD: Because of an error in the program, a review last Sunday of the Glimmerglass Opera Company's production of Benjamin Britten's ''Midsummer Night's Dream'' misidentified two members of the cast. Steven Tharp sang the part of Lysander and Kenneth...
1987* LEAD: Shakespeare and opera remain passionate, if somewhat mistrustful, partners after 200 years. The language of the plays literally breathes with music, and their allure for composers is as irresistible as it is duplicitous. Opera, in other words,...
1987* LEAD: Benjamin Britten's operas are, on the whole, the best extant in the English language, and ought to be in regular repertory with all American companies. But - being British and being difficult - they are not quite ''ours'' in the way that...
1987* LEAD: A free outdoor performance of Shakespeare's ''Midsummer Night's Dream'' will be presented by the Riverside Shakespeare Company on July 15 at 6 P.M. in Bryant Park, 42d Street between Fifth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas. The performance is...
1987* LEAD: IN ''China Dream,'' a celebrated Chinese actress immigrates to the United States, is unable to continue her career and finds herself becoming nostalgic for the life she thought she had in her homeland. From this material, William H. Sun and...
1987* LEAD: TWO LIVES AND A DREAM. By Marguerite Yourcenar. Translated by Walter Kaiser in collaboration with the author. 245 pages. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $16.95.
1988* LEAD: NOT long before he was gunned down on the balcony of a motel in Memphis, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. observed that it did no good to be allowed to eat in a restaurant if you had no money to pay for a hamburger. Dr. King, whose birthday...
1988* LEAD: JEAN FORMAN is a jeweler with a mission. ''These are the kinds of things people should wear when they travel, so they can feel relaxed and don't have to worry about hiding them,'' she said. ''Or they might be just the thing for someone who has...
1988* LEAD: IN his crusade for the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. said the evil of race discrimination was ''so great that the Negro cannot fight it alone.''
1988* LEAD: ''Dream Beach,'' a new opera in three acts for two singers and ensemble, will be given a concert performance on March 20 at the Green Auditorium of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged, 40 West 68th Street. The opera, by Michael...
1988* LEAD:  THE DREAM OF HEROES  By Adolfo Bioy Casares.  Translated by Diana Thorold.  212 pp. New York:  E.P. Dutton.   $17.95.
1988* LEAD: Fifteen years ago, when A. J. Antoon directed ''Much Ado About Nothing'' to the accompaniment of ragtime music, an oompah band, and the antics of Keystone Kops, President Nixon saw the play and said wonderingly, ''I didn't know they could do it...
1988* LEAD:  WE DREAM OF HONOUR  John Berryman's Letters to His Mother.  Edited by Richard J. Kelly.  Illustrated. 405 pp. New York:  W. W. Norton & Company. $22.50.
1988* LEAD: ''Pyramus and Thisby,'' the play-within-the-play performed by Bottom and his fellow workmen, usually provides a hilarious finale to ''A Midsummer Night's Dream.'' That is most pointedly not the case in Mark Lamos's production of Shakespeare's...
1988* LEAD: ''A Midsummer Night's Dream,'' Benjamin Britten's marvelously wrought Shakespeare opera, is getting a great deal of American exposure these days, perhaps enough to make it truly well known to a small core of the audience and performing...
1988* LEAD: More than most Shakespearean plays, ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'' freely lends itself to reinterpretation and transplantation, or - to use the word applied to Bottom - to ''translation.'' Although the play takes place in Athens and the forest...
1989* LEAD:  Dream a Little Dream  1989. Vestron Home Video. $89.98. Laser disk, $39.95. Closed captioned. 1 hour 44 minutes. PG-13.  Sprinting through back yards, Bobby (Corey Feldman) and Lainie (Meredith Salenger) collide with each other and while out...
1989* LEAD: About 20 minutes into ''Dream a Little Dream,'' a couple of teen-agers, Bobby and Lainie (Corey Feldman and Meredith Salenger), collide at high speed. As they lie unconscious, Bobby absorbs the spirit or persona of a mystically inclined...
1989* LEAD:  IMPOSSIBLE DREAM  The Marcoses, the Aquinos,  and the Unfinished Revolution.  By Sandra Burton.  483 pp. New York: Warner Books. $24.95.
1989* LEAD: THE DIVERTED DREAM: Community Colleges and the Promise of Educational Opportunity in America, 1900-1985. By Steven Brint and Jerome Karabel. (Oxford University, $24.95.) The United States sends more of its young people to college than any other...
1989* LEAD:  THE DREAM LONG DEFERRED. By Frye Gaillard. (University of North Carolina, Paper $9.95; Cloth, $19.95.) In 1971, the United States Supreme Court upheld a Federal District Court decision that transformed American education. No one felt the...
1989* LEAD: On an early Spring day that threatens snow or sunshine or both, the television trucks descend on a vest-pocket basketball court tucked at the corner of Gregory and High Point Avenues in a working-class neighborhood in Weehawken, N. J. It is a...
1989* LEAD: Having turned suburban yuppie angst into a first-rate series, in ABC's ''Thirtysomething,'' the executive producers Marshall Herskovitz and Ed Zwick are now trying to find a successful formula for urban working-class hopes with NBC's ''Dream...
1989* LEAD: There's nothing dreadfully wrong with ''The Dream Team,'' Howard Zieff's new comedy, except that it's not funny too much of the time. On those occasions when it is funny, the humor less often prompts laughter than mute appreciation of the...
1989* LEAD: I am a son of Greek immigrants. My parents, George and Venetia, came to America in their teens with nothing more than grade-school educations, and from a school in a Greek farm village at that. They were understandably fearful yet full of hope...
1989* LEAD: The early 17th century was a time of great soul-searching in Europe. Aftershocks from the Reformation and Counter-Reformation still shuddered through cathedrals and palaces, calling into question political alliances, religious convictions and...
1990* LEAD: The southern coast of Albania is sometimes referred to as the Ionian Riviera. In this case the term is not ambiguous. There are no high-rise developments here, no casinos, no jet airports or trailer parks. Polychrome limestone cliffs loom above...
1990* LEAD: Astapovo. It is a tiny railroad station in western Russia, unmarked in any atlas I have seen. There, in the stationmaster's humble little shack beside the tracks, a small iron bedstead was placed in the living room with, beside it, a bedside...
1990* LEAD: In 1979 I saw an aerial photograph of the Mayan pyramid at Coba. The pyramid itself was invisible because trees and vines had grown over it. There was only a green hump in the green jungle.
1990* LEAD: It's a bleak day in Manhattan as I'm writing this, and I can't help wondering why I'm here and not on some gorgeous tropical island. In fact, I wonder why I've never been on a gorgeous tropical island. My favorite Broadway number is still...
1990* LEAD: I have for many years been fascinated by Romania, and in particular by Bucharest. It is a purely literary fascination. It began when I read Olivia Manning's ''Balkan Trilogy,'' from whose pages there rose a seedy glamour, a whiff of alluring...
1990* LEAD: Karen comes back from Florida, talking about Key West. She hit the Overseas Highway, and 42 bridges later she was on Duval Street buying a palm frond hat. She checked into a guesthouse called Big Ruby's, stuffed herself with conch fritters and...
1990* LEAD: Never has so much been written about a place of which nobody knows a thing. When religious Victorians put about that the hereafter was not a place but a state of being, the sublime Cardinal Newman opined that the idea of place was inherent in...
1990* LEAD: In Edinburgh, a scarred old double-runged wooden stool; in Jerusalem, lying folded on a stand-up desk, a pair of well-used reading glasses. The tall stool (I have one just like it in my kitchen) and the scratched lenses (a dresser-drawerful of...
1990* LEAD: When I was a child I longed to see the aurora borealis, and life being what it is, I still do. I'm told one needn't go all that far north to glimpse this magical display of fairy lights stretching across the night sky - one lucky friend claims...
1990* LEAD: Rock-and-roll today is bigger business than ever, but there are still bands that maintain a low-budget, do-it-yourself work ethic. Eleventh Dream Day and the Meat Puppets, two bands that will be performing tomorrow night at the RAPP Arts...
1991* The rap double bill at S.O.B.'s on Thursday night was, as usual for rap concerts, less than it could have been. It wobbled unsteadily for two reasons. The first is a common one: no one has bothered to help these groups with their acts, and the result...
1991* The impromptu offer EUGENE M. LANG made in 1981 to provide college scholarships for a sixth-grade class in the Bronx grew into a nationwide network of volunteer groups, the "I Have a Dream" Foundation, that has raised millions of dollars for...
1991* Ten years after Eugene M. Lang became a folk hero by promising college scholarships to an entire sixth-grade class in East Harlem, he gave a party recently for the first two to earn bachelor's degrees.   For the 22-year-old graduates, Rousanna...
1991* Parker Brothers filed suit today against the manufacturer of a board game that uses elements of Monopoly.   The lawsuit, filed in Federal court in New York, accuses the Elusive Dream Marketing Service of El Cajon, Calif., of unfair competition and...
1991* As a Dream That Vanishes (A Meditation on the Harvest of a Lifetime)  575 Broadway (entrance, 142 Mercer Street, at Prince Street), Manhattan Through Nov. 24 Created by Merry Conway and Noni Pratt. Constructor of museum, Gregor Paslawsky; lighting,...
1991* A DREAM DEFERRED  America's Discontent and the Search for a New Democratic Ideal. By Philip Slater. Beacon, $19.95.
1991* Michael R. Milken is in jail. Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. is in bankruptcy. The "junk bond" market is in disarray.    But to a loyal former aide to Mr. Milken, and to companies like Safeway Stores, MCI Communications and dozens of others that were...
1991* PEOPLE who had never watched a basketball game tuned in the University of Connecticut's team last year, when the Huskies became champions of the Big East Conference and went on to the national collegiate finals.   Now readers can relive the team's...
1991* PERCHANCE TO DREAM Robert B. Parker's Sequel to Raymond Chandler's "The Big Sleep." By Robert B. Parker. 271 pp. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons. $19.95.
1991* Shakespeare in Portuguese? "A Midsummer Night's Dream" in a defoliated forest? Fairies in costumes that are almost 100 percent makeup and their own flesh? Well, Caca Rosset's back in town with another provocative interpretation of a stage classic.   ...
1992* As preparations get under way worldwide for the Earth Summit to be held in Brazil in June, the Philippines Earth Savers Movement has come forth with a DREAM, which is the acronym for a lofty project entitled Development Rehabilitation of the...
1992* When the Beijing Opera appeared at the Metropolitan Opera House more than a decade ago, uninitiated Westerners were struck by the teeming theatricality of the productions. Stately stylized gesture often gave way to bolder modes of expression,...
1992* Lotto Experience the Dream    "Lotto: Experience the Dream," originally produced by the Billie Holiday Theater in Brooklyn, has reopened at the Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, in Manhattan. Following are excerpts from D. J. R.Bruckner's...
1992* "American Dream" was shown as part of the 1990 New York Film Festival. Following are excerpts from Janet Maslin's review, which appeared in The New York Times on Oct. 6, 1990. The film is at the Angelika Film Center, 611 Broadway, at Houston Street. ...
1992* JOURNEYS IN DREAM AND IMAGINATION   By Artur Lundkvist. Translated by Ann B. Weissmann and Annika Planck. Introduction by Carlos Fuentes. 129 pp. New York: Four Walls Eight Windows. $17.95.
1992* They were wives, models and mistresses and they were also artists, but the women who were among the early Impressionist painters were often slighted by their peers. In her new play, "Dream of a Common Language," Heather McDonald scrutinizes this...
1992* A Midsummer Night's Dream  John Jay Theater 899 10th Avenue (at 58th Street) Manhattan Through Saturday By William Shakespeare; directed by Joe Dowling; set design by Douglas Stein; costumes by Catherine Zuber; lighting by Allen Lee Hughes; composer,...
1992* DREAM MESSENGER By Masahiko Shimada. Kodansha, $22.
1992* As one of the people seen in Victor Erice's "Dream of Light" (none of them are actors) finally wonders, "How can such a small tree bear so much fruit?" The same question might be asked about this quiet, meticulous and supremely simple film, which...
1992* When Florence Reece wrote the labor anthem "Which Side Are You On" back in the 1930's, her question was rhetorical. Four decades later, when she sang it in Barbara Kopple's paean to labor, "Harlan County, U.S.A.," the song title was still listed in...
1993* To the Editor:   I can ignore the inexplicable but transparent hostility in Laura Kalman's "review" of my book "Dream Makers, Dream Breakers: The World of Justice Thurgood Marshall" (Feb. 7). But I must challenge two of her questionings of my...
1993* Martin Tupper's mind is submerged in television imagery. Viewers may not see him watch much television, but the thoughts of the main character in HBO's sitcom "Dream On" are regularly illustrated with snippets from the programs he absorbed as a...
1993* The Endangered American Dream  How to Stop the United States From Becoming a Third-World Country and How to Win the Geo-Economic Struggle for Industrial Supremacy By Edward N. Luttwak  365 pages. Simon & Schuster. $24.   Much will seem familiar about...
1993* A review in Weekend on Friday about "A Midsummer Night's Dream" and other productions by Shakespeare and Company in Lenox, Mass., referred incorrectly to a playwright who adapted short stories by Edith Wharton for the troupe. She is Sharon Werner,...
1993* In the summertime, there is a distinctly collegiate charm about the Mount, the former Edith Wharton estate in the Berkshires. The home base of Shakespeare and Company, an organization devoted principally to the production of and training in...
1993* Sheik chic: VALENTINO, the fashion designer, will design for Valentino, the silent-film heartthrob.    The alliance of the two Valentinos will occur in the production of "The Dream of Valentino," an opera by Dominick Argento. The production is a...
1993* Bill T. Jones, the dancer and choreographer, is to direct a play, Derek Walcott's "Dream on Monkey Mountain," at the Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis in February. "It's a tremendous challenge," he said. "The purity of movement is supreme on my stage....
1993* NEIL SAKOW was bouncing around the floor, singing the 1960 Kennedy campaign song written to the tune of "High Hopes." Then he broke into an impromptu two-step, finishing with a frantic wave of an original campaign flag.    "Frank Sinatra did that...
1993* The Washington Opera has announced that it would present the premiere next season of an opera by Dominick Argento based on the life of Rudolph Valentino.   The opera, "The Dream of Valentino," is to be a co-production with the Dallas Opera, which is...
1993* On the long bus ride to Canton Technical College in upstate New York, where Q'hana Gethers will soon start classes, she picked at the sack lunch prepared by her grandmother and stared out the window at the unfamiliar countryside. "I don't want to...
1994* Riding a Hog just isn't cool anymore. The motorcycle mavens are trying way too hard. Witness the recent gala opening in SoHo of American Dream Machine, a "full-service and retail American motorcycle shop."   The store is decorated with the requisite...
1994* The news that Q'hana Gethers was failing gym because she never attended class seemed to exhaust the final reserves of her college mentor's patience.   "Maybe you saw a different transcript last semester than I did," Kahan Sablo, multicultural affairs...
1994* At the beginning of Dominick Argento's latest opera, which was given its world premiere by the Washington Opera on Saturday night, Rudolph Valentino lies on a coffin, draped with roses. The silent-film star's dreamy, languid gaze appears on screens...
1994* DREAM CITY Race, Power, and the Decline of Washington, D.C. By Harry S. Jaffe and Tom Sherwood.  Illustrated. 352 pp. New York:  Simon & Schuster. $24.
1994* When Everett Quinton took over the Ridiculous Theatrical Company after the death of Charles Ludlam in 1987, there was trepidation in this Off Broadway fun house. As founder, playwright and star, Mr. Ludlam seemed irreplaceable. Since then, while...
1994* How do you send up something that's already in the ether? In tackling "A Midsummer Night's Dream" as its first Shakespearean venture, the legendary Ridiculous Theatrical Company confronts a whole new set of problems.   The play, on its own terms,...
1994* When Ray Reardon (James Spader) meets Lena Mathers (Madchen Amick) she behaves hatefully, which is really the sort of thing he ought to notice. But Ray is understandably distracted by Lena's good looks. A debonair yuppie architect, he has a fine eye...
1994* Speaking of Valentino, when the curtain rises at the John F. Kennedy Center for Performing Arts in Washington on Saturday for the premiere of "The Dream of Valentino," an opera by DOMINICK ARGENTO, there will a Valentino in the audience. The Italian...
1994* Nevin and Karen Smith had packed all their belongings for the move into their dream house in Lititz, Pa., eight miles north of Lancaster. The freezer was defrosted, the mail was forwarded and a moving van was scheduled to arrive in the morning.   But...
1994* THE SENSE OF DEJA VU I EXPERIENCED recently while watching the premiere of Dominick Argento's "Dream of Valentino" at the Washington Opera had nothing to do with having once seen "The Sheik," the silent film starring Rudolph Valentino. The feeling of...
1995* All the Ills of the Age In a One-Night Stand  'A Candle in the Window' One Dream Theater
1995* When 60 homeless children living in city shelters and welfare hotels created Dream Street Park out of a rat-infested lot on 124th Street and Lexington Avenue in 1989, they painted a large mural depicting their view of a perfect city. The mural...
1995* The 1992 film "Arizona Dream" arrived on the home video market with traffic-stopping credits and a badly checkered past. Starring Johnny Depp and Faye Dunaway long before the more staid (believe it or not) "Don Juan DeMarco" made the world safe for...
1995* I SHARED THE DREAM  The Pride, Passion and Politics of the First Black Woman Senator From Kentucky. By Georgia Davis Powers. Illustrated. 324 pp. Far Hills, N.J.:  New Horizon Press. $25.95.
1995* RL'S DREAM  By Walter Mosley. 267 pp. New York: W. W. Norton & Company. $22.
1995* DREAM STATE Stories. By Moira Crone. 189 pp. Jackson: University Press of Mississippi. $18.95.
1995* For those of us who have forgotten, Flip Schulke's HE HAD A DREAM: Martin Luther King Jr. and the Civil Rights Movement (Norton, cloth, $39.95; paper, $19.95) will jog painful memories of the South in the 1960's; for the generation that never...
1995* 
1995* To the Editor:   In "Playing Like a Dream" (editorial, June 17), your tribute to the basketball star Hakeem (The Dream) Olajuwon, you identify his personal qualities, among them that "he is devoutly religious and prays several times a day." You...
1995* To the Editor:         Thomas L. Friedman's Oct. 29 column on Israel's emerging and opulent culture  says a great deal about postmodern Israel, but it ultimately oversimplifies. Israel is a lot more than a cell phone, and Jewish identity has to do...
1996* Describing sensational murders in the ennobling terms of Greek tragedy is a favorite device of mass-media journalists, so it seems only fitting that Greek tragedy should return the compliment. In "Orestes: 'I Murdered My Mother,' " at  the One Dream...
1996* To the Editor:    Re your Nov. 26 Oxford Journal: Oxford University has for many years offered a degree in philosophy, politics and economics known as the P.P.E. It provides a wider foundation in ethics and social responsibility than the narrower...
1996* Over the last 30 years, "A Midsummer Night's Dream" has been reinvented more  frequently even than Cher. Blame the critic Jan Kott, if you want, whose 1964 essay on the comedy's sinister subtext banished forever the notion of a happy, gauzy...
1996* MAGIC SPELLS, SPRITES, confused lovers, upended umbrellas . . . it must be the Royal Shakespeare Company's latest version of "A Midsummer Night's Dream." Opening tonight at the Lunt-Fontanne Theater, under the direction of Adrian Noble, the company's...
1996* To the Editor:    The controversy over a major gift to Oxford University by the Saudi businessman Wafic Said (Oxford Journal, Nov. 26) has greater implications than whether or not Oxford wants to embrace business education at this late date.
1996* LIKE MANY ANOTHER ICONIC work of art, Shakespeare's ''Midsummer Night's Dream'' has been subject to  false assumptions and glib interpretations. Some productions treat it as a relentlessly light comedy, glossing over its disturbing elements: stolen...
1996* What happens if you sit a baby in front of a black-and-white television and let him watch everything from Jack Benny to monster movies? On the HBO series "Dream On," that baby will grow up to be Martin Tupper, who did not turn out to  be functionally...
1996* Blue Sky Dream  A Memoir of America's Fall From Grace.  By David Beers.  Illustrated. 273 pp. New York:  Doubleday. $23.95.    We're living through anxious times. The intellectual notions of post-modernism and the ''end'' of history, the casual...
1996* Would Hans Krasa's "Betrothal in a Dream," playing at the Washington Opera, have been revived if its composer had not perished in Auschwitz? Most likely not. It is an attractive piece but not a shattering one: its composer was, from  available...
1996* A Daughter Abandoned, A Prince Unawares 'Life Is a Dream' Pearl Theater
1997* ''Dream,'' a musical inspired by the lyrics of Johnny Mercer, is to close after the matinee on Sunday at the Royale Theater, 242 West 45th Street, Manhattan. It will be the 109th regular performance of the show, directed and choreographed by Wayne...
1997* EUGENE LANG, the philanthropist, is giving a Sweet 16 party for a group he calls ''my children'' on Sunday at the Union Settlement House on East 104th Street. When they were sixth graders at Public School 121 in East Harlem 16 years ago, he made a...
1997* It was a night of slow rock at Irving Plaza on Thursday when Tortoise and Eleventh Dream Day, two bands from Chicago, performed drifty, oneiric sets.     At any other time in the last 20 years, Tortoise would probably not be the headline act in a...
1997* To the Editor:    In ''The Songs Her Father's Lyricist Taught Her'' $(March 30$), Margaret Whiting says the songwriter Johnny Mercer never had a hit Broadway show. She is forgetting the 1956 ''Li'l Abner'' (693 performances; music by Gene de Paul and...
1997* STEVE and Eydie. ''The Andy Williams Show.'' Mink stoles. The fox trot. Vodka stingers. The velveteen swivel seats in the nightclub of a Catskills hotel, circa 1965.    If any of these people, places or things stir aural memories of cocktail-lounge...
1997* WHEN MARGARET WHITING was a young girl growing up in Hollywood, her mother invited her to sing at a party for Johnny Mercer, the hot new lyricist in town who was collaborating on movie songs with her father, Richard A. Whiting.     After she...
1997* THE SOUTH IN AMERICAN  song has traditionally been a dreamland of sensual repose, a rural idyll of misty winding rivers and summer air, thick with the scent of honeysuckle and magnolia, of August afternoons spent rocking on a porch swing listening to...
1997* The newest 99 World store had been in business only half an hour. But already the line of customers in the eastern Bronx shop snaked back 75 feet from the cash register, past the hair extensions, the vanilla wafers and the witch hazel, all selling...
1997* The half-dozen top lobbyists sipping cocktails in the dimly lighted library of the City Club suspended their talk of golf and dieting (without giving up red wine or red meat) to raise a glass to Thomas J. Donohue, head persuader for the trucking...
1997* For more than 25 years after the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., his widow and four children were Atlanta's royalty.    World leaders made pilgrimages to the Martin Luther King Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change on Auburn...
1998* A plan for a $1 million arcade and superstore to fill a long-empty storefront in the Galleria mall in White Plains was dropped this month when the man who was seeking it ended an 18-month fight with the city's Common Council. The sticking point,...
1998* IMAGINE being in respiratory distress and then seeing a giant-size oxygen mask come down over much of your face. Imagine a huge blood-pressure cuff wrapped around a tiny arm, or an adult-size needle in a newborn vein.     Children's medical...
1998* DREAM CHILDREN  By A. N. Wilson.  Norton, $23.95.
1998* DREAM CHILDREN  By A.N. Wilson  218 pages. W.W. Norton & Company. $23.95.
1998* It's not an encouraging sign when a movie whose center of gravity is a San Francisco coffeehouse called the Cafe Blue Eyes plays Frank Sinatra Jr. on the soundtrack instead of the real thing. And that's not the only element that rings false in...
1998* A Dream Deferred   The Second Betrayal of Black Freedom   in America.   By Shelby Steele.   185 pp. New York:   HarperCollins Publishers. $24.
1998* Rambling across four centuries and turning a bleak eye on the Roman Catholic Church and United States imperialism in Central America, Arthur Grion's ambitious new play, ''A Dream of Wealth,'' may not be subtle, but it provides plenty of history and...
1998* A review on page 7 of the Book Review today, about ''Killing the Dream: James Earl Ray and the Assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.,'' describes Mr. Ray's insistence on his innocence, despite his 1969 plea of guilty in Dr. King's murder the year...
1998* STEAL THIS DREAM  Abbie Hoffman and the Countercultural Revolution in America  By Larry Sloman  Illustrated. 437 pages. Doubleday. $27.50.
1998* KILLING THE DREAM   James Earl Ray and the Assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.   By Gerald Posner.   Illustrated. 446 pp. New York:   Random House. $25.
1999* EVERY Thursday night since January, cognoscenti have been flocking to a sassy dance-theater performance at the Pyramid Club in Manhattan's East Village. ''The Donkey Show,'' conceived by Randy Weiner and directed by Mr. Weiner and his wife, Diane...
1999* THE DREAM MISTRESS  By Jenny Diski.  186 pp. Hopewell, N.J.:  The Ecco Press. $23.95.
1999* Pot luck Shakespeare is enjoying a special film vogue now, what with the tempting prospect of hearing a ''forsooth'' or ''methinks'' from the least likely sources. The strategy of choice is picking a travel agent's dream setting, casting attractive...
1999* THERE were those in the team of British hair and makeup experts hired to give her the fairy-tale makeover for Michael Hoffman's adaptation of ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'' who expected nothing good from Calista Flockhart. And they told her so. Cast...
1999* From the moment the two characters in ''Dream City Twosome'' meet, there is no doubt about how the play will end. The only question is how it will get there. And the answer is: dully.    The characters are Penny, a surly, hostile young woman who...
1999* The daughter of the obsessively private author J. D. Salinger is preparing to publish a memoir of her childhood and relationship with her father.     The book by Margaret (Peggy) Salinger, 43, is tentatively titled ''The Dream Catcher'' and is...
1999* IMAGINE a play that suggests Shakespeare  particularly ''Hamlet'' or ''The Tempest'' -- filtered through a Pirandellian prism, with an enormous gilt-edged mirror suspended forbiddingly above the action and a gravel-strewn set providing its own aural...
1999* Those unsung heroes of the theater, the scenery-hanging, prop-moving light-stringers known as the techies, open their mouths and sing in the Moonwork theater company's broadly farcical reimagining of ''A Midsummer Night's Dream.'' The director...
1999* THE REAL   AMERICAN DREAM   A Meditation on Hope.   By Andrew Delbanco.   143 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:   Harvard University Press. $19.95.
1999* THE green knoll at Hudson Park here had a timeless look about it. The summer dusk, the 150 or so people sitting on the gently sloping lawn, attention focused on a wooden stage could have been an audience from centuries ago, except for the blue jeans,...
2000* IN David Cronenberg's science-fiction horror film, ''Existenz,'' there is a moment when a character is seized by the impulse to eat a dubious plate of food in the virtual reality game he's playing.     ''It's disgusting,'' he says, ''but I can't help...
2000* It's not unusual in New York to see people lining up around the block for artists few outsiders know exist. But Dream Theater, which attracted a crowd that waited five hours or more to get the best view for the show on Wednesday night at Roseland,...
2000* The manufacturer of a baby crib will pay a $200,000 civil fine for not quickly reporting a defect that caused cuts and crushed finger tips in at least nine cases, the federal Product Safety Commission said today.    The commission said the...
2000* Page 84 Black silk dress, $3,100, by Donna Karan Collection. At Bloomingdale's. Saks Fifth Avenue. Cream linen dress (in window), $1,995, by Miguel Adrover. At Barneys New York. Boots by Manolo Blahnik. Page 85 From left: gold lace shell, $880, by...
2000* DREAM STUFF  By David Malouf  185 pages. Pantheon. $22.  No contemporary literature is more insistently permeated by the spirit of the land than Australia's.
2000* J.D. Salinger's daughter, Margaret, is visiting New York from Boston and staying at the Plaza Hotel, under an assumed name. There are Salinger ''crazies'' out there, Ms. Salinger says, who have written menacing letters to her family. And then there...
2000* A brief report yesterday about the composer Lewis Spratlan, winner of the Pulitzer Prize for music for his ''Life Is a Dream, Opera in Three Acts: Act II, Concert Version,'' misstated the site of the work's world premiere on Jan. 28. It was first...
2000* IN the last couple of years, moviegoers have become accustomed to seeing Web site addresses tacked to anything advertising a film, from the movie trailer itself to posters on the sides of city buses. As Hollywood and the Web begin to overlap, each...
2000* In ''Requiem for a Dream,'' the director Darren Aronofsky's adaptation of Hubert Selby Jr.'s lower-depths novel, Jared Leto has lost so much weight he looks like another person altogether. As the junkie Harry, a wasted pretty boy, he seems kept aloft...
2000* DREAM CATCHER   A Memoir.   By Margaret A. Salinger.   Illustrated. 436 pp. New York:   Washington Square Press/   Pocket Books. $27.95.
2001* To the Editor:    Paul Griffiths's article about Elgar's ''Dream of Gerontius'' [''A Hymn to England's Divinity,'' March 4] was insightful. Unfortunately, Mr. Griffiths wrote, in a rather by-the-way manner, that the Church of England was the...
2001* When George W. Bush was campaigning for president, he stopped in downtown Los Angeles at the Dream Center and praised it as the kind of religious antipoverty program he wanted his administration to support. Now that Mr. Bush is president, a close...
2001* AS FOR DREAM   By Saskia Hamilton.   Graywolf, paper, $12.95.
2001* PIPE DREAM   By Solomon Jones.   Villard/Strivers Row, paper, $13.95.
2001* MY DREAM OF YOU   By Nuala O'Faolain.   500 pp. New York:   Riverhead Books. $25.95.
2001* DREAM HOUSE   Stories.   By Barbara Bean.   Center for Literary Publishing/   Colorado State University, $22.
2001* THE AFRICAN DREAM   The Diaries of the Revolutionary War in the Congo.   By Ernesto Che Guevara.   Translated by Patrick Camiller.   Illustrated. 244 pp. New York:   Grove Press. Paper. $14.95.
2001* THE DREAM MACHINE   J. C. R. Licklider and the Revolution   That Made Computing Personal.   By M. Mitchell Waldrop.   Illustrated. 502 pp. New York: Viking. $29.95.
2001* The ''rude mechanicals'' of Shakespeare's ''Midsummer Night's Dream'' are builders, carpenters, tailors, weavers. They are the kind of figures who work backstage, costuming actors, constructing sets, keeping the drama's machinery in repair. So when...
2001* ELLEN BURSTYN said she was sitting the other day in her trailer on the Paramount lot, just off the set of her latest television series, ''That's Life,'' trying to trace the chain of events that led her to the role of the lonely, addicted Sara...
